GOLDEN GATE-BHAIRAV CHOWK-MUL CHOWK-TALEJU
IId go to the Durbar Square... from Durbar square.... into into the Golden Gate... there is a series of chowks there. And if it was Dashain.., the seventh day of Dashain, one of the chowks would be open for that particular day. As soon as you go straight through the Golden Gate and when you turn right there are two attendants waiting outside the building. The attendants are the where the king and the Prime Minister.. would be seated. It leads to Bhairav Chowk and it's open only once a year to public.... Dashain. Its important because there are 8 life sized images of ....8 forms of Bhairav...you can go on Dashain or you have to make special permissions to the priests there to get access. Otherwise it's only one day.... and it has to be early in the morning ....seven o'clock... before seven o'clock. If not... we go around and into the Taleju.. Mul Chowk..you  take off ....my shoes, my leather items, my mobiles. The art in the Taleju...the Mul Chowk it's stunning compared to.... there are Taleju Chowks in Patan and in Katmandu but the one in Bhaktapur is the original. In the 1400s, 1500s, when Jayasthiti Malla became the ruler from Taleju...  

PRASHANSHEEL MAHABIHAR
I think is very important is Prashansheel Mahavihar or Pashupati Mahavihar or Jyajudyoh ...north of Dattatreya Square..and historically there's an inscription mentioned... it  be the oldest Buddhist vihara 

DATTATREYA SQUARE
Personally.... So first of all Dattatreya Square is important.... even though not many tourists pay attention to this... where they mostly come to the Durbar Square.... half an hour ...half an hour trip there and go back. Dattatreya Square, because it is the original centre of Bhaktapur or once it was 	organized as a city and the 12th century.... the Malla organized Bhaktapur supposedly in the shape of a conch shell.... about thousand houses. The Royal Palaces were around Dattatreya Square... some say before the Dattatreya temple, but the Dattatreya are combined by form of Brahma Vishnu Shiva. . 

TAUMADHI
Then one can go to the five storey temple...climb up... and then have the view of the entire city and the top of the steps of the five storey temple you can see the  Bhairav Nath temple on left and.. like far off ...you can see the Madhav Narain temple.  In the evenings the view I find ...it's breathtaking.

DURBAR SQUARE
FIVE STOREY TEMPLE
KAMAL VINAYAK POND
BHAIRAV TEMPLE
TUCHCHIMALA
NAG POKHARI
NAVADURGA DYOCHCHEN
WAKUPATI NARAYAN TEMPLE

Main Text - Suyog Prajapati (Male, aged 32) is an art historian and scholar. He has spent several years researching Bhaktapur’s history, architecture and art. He is deeply engaged with the heritage of Bhaktapur, particularly its routes and religious spatialities. 

Drawing - Suyog Prajapati has described lots of detail in the city and includes geographical boundaries as opposed to administrative boundaries. He has mapped out the Trade route . His landmarks include ponds, ashtamatrika, the ghats, key squares and the rivers. This map also has a north point- and a sense of scale of the city and individual locations within the city. 

ashtamatrika in italics

